Pix.ly

UI

First Visit

1. User can upload photos (upload form) to AWS (Metadata is stored in Database)
2. User can view and select ANY photos stored in system.
3. Users can search image data with EXIF fields (PSQL full-text search)
4. User can edit: Color -> Sepia -> B&W

After Editing, Options:

1. Download
2. Save the File to AWS
3. Cancel

REACT - COMPONENTS

1. APP
2. NAVBAR - Home, Search Photos, View Random Photos, Upload Photos
3. UPLOAD PHOTO FORM? (look into file upload AWS, strip the metadata to put in database)
4. PHOTO DISPLAY PAGE FILLED (infinite scroll, pagination)
5. FOOTER

PYTHON - BACKEND

1. Manipulate the photos?
2. Strip Metadata to store in DB
3. Use PILLOW or alt for image processing abilities (https://pypi.org/project/Pillow/)(https://www.alixaprodev.com/2021/10/python-libraries-for-image-processing.html)

RESTFUL API: CREATE READ UPDATE DELETE -- SQL
post / get / put:patch / delete

POST /images {id, url}
store photo in backend (temp) -- address reversion (CANCEL)
strip metadata from photo(?)
upload to AWS script, return URL back
store it as new record on DB.
GET ALL /images [{id, url}, {id, url}...]
grab all url in DB and feed into front-end
GET filtered /images [{id, url}, {id, url}...]
grab all url in DB by query parameters and feed into front-end
GET ONE /images/<int:id> {id, url}
grab one url in DB and feed into front-end
DELETE /images/<int:id> {id, message}
grab one url
script to delete in AWS
EDIT:
grab one url in DB
download a copy ?
edit photo with PILLOW python library
POST new editted photo

<!-- ** OPTIONAL - PUT/PATCH   /images/<int:id> -- add edited photo as separate file? (PUT? - optional)
    grab one url in DB
    download a copy ?
    edit photo with PILLOW python library  -->

const AWS_BASE_URL = https://pixlyrithm25.s3.amazonaws.com/
DATABASE

PHOTO_ID | EXIF WIDTH | EXIF HEIGHT | Model | IMG_URL_AWS
a.jpeg 500 800 iPhone 12 Pro aws.com...

EDIT FUNCTIONS:

COLOR:
b/w: https://holypython.com/python-pil-tutorial/how-to-convert-an-image-to-black-white-in-python-pil/
sepia: https://www.codementor.io/@isaib.cicourel/intermediate-image-filters-mj6y7abx4

Re-Size: https://www.tutorialspoint.com/python_pillow/python_pillow_resizing_an_image.htm

Border:

Strip Metadata: https://medium.com/nerd-for-tech/script-to-extract-image-metadata-using-python-and-pillow-library-53a6ae56ccc3

Radio Buttons with a Submit Button after choices are made.

GOAL:
Done: SQL database,

Wednesday -
-python backend CRUD routes
-finish off scripts to do editing functions.
-download file from AWS to use in backend.
-Get AWS file upload/download working today.



Thursday -
1. Users can search image data from the EXIF fields (you can learn about PostgreSQL full-text search)
2. CSS styling
    - fix logo on edit page
    - make prettier (form, etc)
3. Resize images for server capacity
4. Populate with beautiful images of cats
5. Add more editing functions (sketch, vignette, etc PILLOW)


Friday -
1. Refactor/reuse Code


LIGHTENING TALK TOUCHPOINTS (DRAFT):

Pix.ly: Image lighttable / editor»
1. Users can view photos stored in the system
    - grab photos from database URL (Flask Jinga - for loop)

2. Users can add a JPG photo using an upload form and picking a file on their computer (you’ll need to learn how to allow image uploads!)
    - Researched upload files.
    - Creating a temporary upload folder.
    - Deleting temporary files after sent to AWS.  => os.remove(filename).
TODO: - Using Pillow to re-size images to avoid server capacity issues.

3. System will retrieve metadata from the photo (location of photo, model of camera, etc) and store it into the database (you’ll need to learn how to read the metadata from photos!)
Images themselves are stored to Amazon S3, not in the database (you’ll get to practice using AWS!)
    - Research EXIF data and its uses.(generated by camera)
    - EXIF metadata (debate over privacy issues, so limited it to camera model vs gps location, etc)
    - First day we worked on AWS uploads, had issues with permission, learned about USER groups/USER,   creating Policies for Group, still wonder about the issues with allowing complete public access...
        s3.upload_file("./bg.png", "pixlyrithm25", "eric.png", ExtraArgs = {"ACL": "public-read"})

4. Users can search image data from the EXIF fields (you can learn about PostgreSQL full-text search)
    - PENDING

5. Users can perform simple image edits (for example):
- turning color photos into B&W
- adding sepia tones
- reducing the size of the image
- adding a border around the image
    - Python PILLOW library offers a wide range image manipulation tools
    - Chose 3 and used WT Forms to provide options and validation

